README.md, before:

PSL1GHT
=======

PSL1GHT is a lightweight PlayStation 3 homebrew SDK that uses the open-source
PlayStation 3 toolchains to compile user applications that will run from the
XMB menu (GameOS homebrew).


Credits
-------

    AerialX     - Founder, Author
    Parlane     - Author
    phiren      - Author
    Tempus      - PSL1GHT Logo
    lousyphreak - libaudio
    Hermes      - sysmodule, libpngdec, libjpgdec
    BigBoss     - EyeToy support added to libcamera sample.
    ooPo        - ps3libraries
    ElSemi      - Vertex Program Compiler


Environment
-----------

A GCC toolchain that supports the PowerPC 64bit architecture is required to
build PSL1GHT and its samples. It also requires the toolchain to provide
a full newlib environment; at the moment only two toolchains do so:

* [ps3chain](http://github.com/HACKERCHANNEL/ps3chain)
* [ps3toolchain](http://github.com/ooPo/ps3toolchain)

The SDK also includes a few standalone tools to help compilation. A host gcc
is required to build raw2h, ps3load, and sprxlinker requires libelf. ps3load
requires zlib installed. Python 2.x is required to run fself.py, sfo.py, and
pkg.py. Nvidia's cg toolkit ([found here](http://developer.nvidia.com/object/cg_toolkit.html), or check your distro's repository) is reqired for compiling vertex programs.

Most of the PSL1GHT samples included in the samples/ directory require various
libraries from [ps3libraries](http://github.com/ooPo/ps3libraries) to be
installed.


Building
--------

Run make install in the psl1ght directory to build it all, and make sure to
set the environment variable $PSL1GHT to the folder where you wish to
install it to, for example...

    cd /path/to/psl1ght.git/
    export PSL1GHT=/path/to/psl1ght.git/build
    make
    make install

... for a local build of it. Ensure that $PSL1GHT is set when you are
building any of the examples or other apps that use PSL1GHT.


Current Status
--------------

### Graphics

PSL1GHT supports hardware acclerated 3d graphics. 
Vertex shaders are a work in progress and Fragment shaders don't exsist yet.

### Input

PS3 controllers are fully supported, and pressing the PS button brings up the
in-game XMB menu, assuming the framebuffer is working.

But you can't currently quit from the xmb without your ps3 giving up and rebooting.

### Filesystem Access

Full filesystem support is available, with access to the internal PS3 hard
drive, game disc contents, and external devices like USB drives. Only directory
iteration is missing, though it can be done using the lv2 filesystem interface
directly (see include/psl1ght/lv2/filesystem.h)

### Networking

Berkeley sockets are available for use in PSL1GHT, though some of the
implementation remains incomplete at this time (hostname lookups, for example).

### STDOUT Debugging

By default, PSL1GHT applications redirect stdout and stderr to the lv2 TTY
interface. Kammy's ethdebug module can be used to retrieve this live debugging
information over UDP broadcast packets.
See [Kammy](http://github.com/AerialX/Kammy) for more information and a
precompiled ethdebug hook loader.

### SPUs

PSL1GHT provides access to running programs on the raw SPUs, and communication
with it from the PPU. See sputest in the samples directory for a simple
example.

### SPRX Linking

Any dynamic libraries available to normal PS3 applications can be used with
PSL1GHT, they just need to be made into a stub library and have the exports
filled out. See any of the examples in sprx/ for information on the
creation of SPRX stub libraries.

The following libraries are currently supported:

* libio
    * libpad
    * libmouse
* liblv2
* libsysutil
* libgcm_sys
* libsysmodule
* libpngdec
* libjpgdec

Commit message:

README clarification for XMB quit callback.

README.md, after:

PSL1GHT
=======

PSL1GHT is a lightweight PlayStation 3 homebrew SDK that uses the open-source
PlayStation 3 toolchains to compile user applications that will run from the
XMB menu (GameOS homebrew).


Credits
-------

    AerialX     - Founder, Author
    Parlane     - Author
    phiren      - Author
    Tempus      - PSL1GHT Logo
    lousyphreak - libaudio
    Hermes      - sysmodule, libpngdec, libjpgdec
    BigBoss     - EyeToy support added to libcamera sample.
    ooPo        - ps3libraries
    ElSemi      - Vertex Program Compiler


Environment
-----------

A GCC toolchain that supports the PowerPC 64bit architecture is required to
build PSL1GHT and its samples. It also requires the toolchain to provide
a full newlib environment; at the moment only two toolchains do so:

* [ps3chain](http://github.com/HACKERCHANNEL/ps3chain)
* [ps3toolchain](http://github.com/ooPo/ps3toolchain)

The SDK also includes a few standalone tools to help compilation. A host gcc
is required to build raw2h, ps3load, and sprxlinker requires libelf. ps3load
requires zlib installed. Python 2.x is required to run fself.py, sfo.py, and
pkg.py. Nvidia's cg toolkit ([found here](http://developer.nvidia.com/object/cg_toolkit.html), or check your distro's repository) is reqired for compiling vertex programs.

Most of the PSL1GHT samples included in the samples/ directory require various
libraries from [ps3libraries](http://github.com/ooPo/ps3libraries) to be
installed.


Building
--------

Run make install in the psl1ght directory to build it all, and make sure to
set the environment variable $PSL1GHT to the folder where you wish to
install it to, for example...

    cd /path/to/psl1ght.git/
    export PSL1GHT=/path/to/psl1ght.git/build
    make
    make install

... for a local build of it. Ensure that $PSL1GHT is set when you are
building any of the examples or other apps that use PSL1GHT.


Current Status
--------------

### Graphics

PSL1GHT supports hardware acclerated 3d graphics. 
Vertex shaders are a work in progress and Fragment shaders don't exsist yet.

### Input

PS3 controllers are fully supported, and pressing the PS button brings up the
in-game XMB menu, assuming the framebuffer is working.

Quitting from the XMB requires the application to register a callback ot handle the event. An example using this is the camera example.

### Filesystem Access

Full filesystem support is available, with access to the internal PS3 hard
drive, game disc contents, and external devices like USB drives. Only directory
iteration is missing, though it can be done using the lv2 filesystem interface
directly (see include/psl1ght/lv2/filesystem.h)

### Networking

Berkeley sockets are available for use in PSL1GHT, though some of the
implementation remains incomplete at this time (hostname lookups, for example).

### STDOUT Debugging

By default, PSL1GHT applications redirect stdout and stderr to the lv2 TTY
interface. Kammy's ethdebug module can be used to retrieve this live debugging
information over UDP broadcast packets.
See [Kammy](http://github.com/AerialX/Kammy) for more information and a
precompiled ethdebug hook loader.

### SPUs

PSL1GHT provides access to running programs on the raw SPUs, and communication
with it from the PPU. See sputest in the samples directory for a simple
example.

### SPRX Linking

Any dynamic libraries available to normal PS3 applications can be used with
PSL1GHT, they just need to be made into a stub library and have the exports
filled out. See any of the examples in sprx/ for information on the
creation of SPRX stub libraries.

The following libraries are currently supported:

* libio
    * libpad
    * libmouse
* liblv2
* libsysutil
* libgcm_sys
* libsysmodule
* libpngdec
* libjpgdec
